(SYRAX SCREECHES)
You stand with a dragon
of House Targaryen!
This dragon came to me.
She wishes him to be instructed
in dragon riding.
BARTIMOS CELTIGAR: The lowborn cannot
go around seizing dragons.
With these riders.
we can end a needless war.
House Targaryen is
the blood of the dragon.
If any may lay claim to it.
what are we then?
♪ (INTENSE MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
We will make an alliance
with the Triarchy.
I've had enough
of this cursed blockade.
TYLAND LANNISTER: You cannot mean to treat
with the Free Cities.
CRISTON COLE: I thank Your Grace
for her blessings.
ALICENT HIGHTOWER: All my life.
I have endeavored to serve.
and somehow none of it matters.
Ser Rickard. I wish to go out.
ALYS RIVERS: There are
older things in this world
than you. or I.
or living memory.
You are not the player.
but a piece on the board.
Do you accept me
as your queen and ruler?
I wish you to go to Harrenhal.
Find out his intentions.
Whether he means to raise a host
for me or for himself.
I have received rumor
of the dragon Seasmoke
with a rider.
CORLYS VELARYON:
The rider is your brother.
If it is something
in the blood...
I am of salt and sea.
I yearn for nothing else.
RHAENA TARGARYEN:
You misled me. My Lady.
There is a large dragon
in the Vale.
JEYNE ARRYN:
It is large and formidable.
But alas. wild.
The Riverlands are held together
by oaths.
DAEMON TARGARYEN: Then we shall
go to face your vassals.
and you will call your banners
to war.
OSCAR TULLY: There is a problem.
They all hate you.
The old ways call for justice
to be done.
Seize him.
He must now rectify
his grievous error.
No. no! No!
It crushes whoever wears it.
(PAINED GROAN)
I push him on your instruction.
He is spent.
LARYS STRONG: It will be long
before he may rest again.
(PAINED GROAN)
They're looking
for Targaryen bastards.
RHAENYRA TARGARYEN: Each of you
has left behind a life
to which you might never return.
If you survive.
you will be transformed.
The dragon. Vermithor...
and Silverwing.
Who among you would be first?
(LAUGHS)
(VHAGAR ROARS)
RHAENYRA: Let us raise
an army of bastards.
(DRAGON ROARS)
(epic theme playing)
♪♪
(theme concludes)
(tense music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
Tyroshi captain:
These are our terms.
One hundred of your
golden dragons.
- Tyland Lannister: Per ship?
- (captain chuckles)
captain:
Per man.
Tyland: I could not
produce such a coin.
even if
I wanted to.
Myrish captain:
Again. you plead poverty.
It is hollow stuff
from the mouth of a Lannister.
Whose very stables
and sculleries
are carved into
a mountain of gold.
And we will need it
before this war is done.
Break the blockade
and it will benefit you.
Do you think that we lack
for buyers
for our tapestries
and perfumes?
We sell where
we please.
blockade or no.
Essos is as rich
as it is vast.
It seems you need us
more than we need you.
- (sighs)
- (indistinct chatter)
The Stepstones.
(scoffs)
What of them?
Give us the Stepstones.
A smattering
of rocks...
hardly a sacrifice
to the lords of Westeros.
I... Those rocks have been
disputed for a generation.
Your...
pirates have waylaid ships.
taken slaves. cargo...
Give them to us outright.
if you prevail.
and all that
will cease.
We will impose
a simple tax
on those
passing through.
Recoup the losses
we took fighting
- the Velaryon hordes.
- Tyland: Extortion.
You will drive up
the price of basic goods.
It is better than
starving. surely.
Myrish captain: A fleet of warships. then.
sailing at your command.
- They would break the blockade...
- Tyland: Hm.
...and hold
the passage.
Very well.
The prince regent may
have me hanged for this.
With the armada
we send now.
you can topple
the prince regent
and sit
the Iron Throne yourself.
- (grunts)
- Myrish captain: Of course. there is one more condition.
(sighs)
Tyland:
I was...
rather set on a bath
and a flagon of wine.
Myrish captain:
The commander of our fleet
must agree
to go with you.
His name is Lohar.
The sailors are fiercely loyal to him.
If. if he does
not lead them.
they will not fight.
Very well.
Let us meet this
commander then.
(clears throat. grunts)
- (flies buzzing)
- (indistinct chatter)
Admiral Lohar...
this is
Tyland Lannister.
of Casterly Rock.
Well met.
Lord Tywin.
Uh...
it's Tyland.
What sort of
man are you?
- I beg your pardon?
- A poet...
a philosopher?
I am the master of ships
at King's Landing.
- You're thin.
- But also tall.
I will not sail with a man
who cannot best me.
(quiet laughter)
(indistinct chatter)
At. at what?
(tense music playing)
(grumbles. roars)
♪♪
(people wailing. screaming)
(music fades out)
(Orwyle pouring tea)
Some rum wouldn't go amiss.
Your Grace.
Just a little.
(distant bell tolling)
You're a good man.
Orwyle.
(door opens)
(Aegon drinking)
(birds chirping)
A word. Your Grace?
(exhales. clears throat)
(door closes)
I must ask you.
Your Grace. to steel yourself.
We must leave
King's Landing. quickly.
and we will not return
for some time.
- What?
- The Pretender has found three new riders for her dragons.
- That's impossible.
- Your brother thought the same.
He flew to challenge her
and was rebuffed.
Fled in terror.
from what I hear.
He deserves no less.
Be that as it may.
he has gone in fury to Sharp Point...
and laid waste
to the whole of the town.
Fucking mad cunt.
She really
did it then?
I fear so.
So. what was the fucking point
in all this then?
The gods are cruel.
Your Grace.
but I hope
you can see the urgency.
No. no. I am the king.
Why must I run?
Because the prince regent
is going to kill you.
You were
in danger before.
and now. he is thwarted
and he is angry.
There is no telling
what he will do.
but we have
an opportunity
- while he is away...
- An opportunity to push him out.
Take me to my throne
and once he returns.
I shall take him prisoner... hm?
And what then?
When Rhaenyra descends
on you with her seven dragons.
and you. without Vhagar.
what then?
W...
Uh...
I have.
over the years.
in anticipation
of little bumps in the road.
moved the greater part
of Harrenhal's gold reserves
to the Iron Bank
in Braavos.
We can live... well
and remain until
what is coming has passed.
(weak laughter)
Y... You want
to take me to Essos
to live with
the goatfuckers.
It's best to live.
I think.
- However you do it.
- Is it?
My dragon is dead.
I am burnt...
and disgusting...
and alone.
And I'm a cripple.
You are not alone.
My cock is destroyed.
did they tell you that?
Yeah. It burst into flames
like a sausage on the spit.
Do not despair.
Your Grace.
There are
better days ahead.
Let your brother
and the Pretender
destroy themselves
in blood and bitterness.
When they are spent.
and their armies
in tatters.
we will return.
and the people
will rise up to meet us.
I can't even piss
without it running down my leg.
They will be tired
of endless deprivation and fear.
They will hail
the returning king...
his father's true heir.
Aegon
the Victorious...
risen from the ashes.
Aegon the Peacemaker.
Aegon the Rebuilder.
Aegon. the Realm's Delight.
- (tense music playing)
- (wind blowing)
(heavy breathing)
(water flowing)
(gasps)
♪♪
Ulf: This is more like it.
Hugh. don't you think?
Hugh: We're meant to be
at the training yards learnin' the commands.
Ulf:
Yeah. and I will go.
but surely they'd not deny me
my pleasure after so long.
- I may never eat fish again.
- (music fades out)
What are you
doing here?
Remove your feet
from the table.
- Ulf: I'd rather not.
- Hugh: Ulf.
It's not up
to you... Ulf.
Who's it up
to then... boy?
He is the prince. Ulf.
Prince Jacaerys Velaryon.
Right here. (chuckles)
Who'd have
thought it?
He lives here.
I'll have
an apology from you.
Ah!
The young prince!
And look
at that hair.
As dark as they say.
Let them tell us
we don't have Targaryen blood. eh?
- My mother is the queen and...
- Dragonriders both.
You and I...
cut from the same cloth.
It is a sacred inheritance
of which you know nothing.
Forgive him.
my prince.
He is not much
used to the manners of court.
Or any manners
at all. I'd say.
Do you know what has happened
this last hour. hm?
The so-called
prince regent
has burned Sharp Point
down to its stones.
Thousands of its folk
dead or lost.
Its harbor in ashes.
Will you prepare
to face such an enemy?
Or will you stay here
and make yourself easy?
If you hinder
our efforts
through sloth
or unreadiness.
I will see
you hanged.
and your body fed to the dogs
in the street.
I-I meant no disrespect.
my prince.
(indistinct chatter)
Rhaenyra Targaryen:
The new riders are a boon to us.
but now
the deed is done.
I cannot erase
my doubts.
We know little
of who they are.
and what is the strength
of their character.
Addam of Hull. at least.
is known to you.
He's a shipwright
in my employ.
and it is reported to me that
he is a man of integrity.
I've had little to do with him...
to my regret.
But the beasts
have been claimed.
You now have
a great advantage.
You must strike.
quickly.
while the prince regent
mulls his next action.
I had hoped my advantage
may be in deterrence.
Vhagar has ever been
our foremost threat.
and she is now
overmatched.
Vhagar is not
his only dragon.
W... The third brother
is untested.
has never
left Oldtown.
and his dragon is
younger than Vermax.
But a dragon
nonetheless.
And you forget another.
Helaena?
She does not ride.
She has no taste for it.
She may yet
be compelled.
- And her dragon...
- Dreamfyre.
hatched when
the Conqueror was king.
She is formidable.
Still. Helaena
is no warrior.
Aemond thought
himself invincible.
He has now discovered
he is not.
He'll be angry.
desperate.
He will not stop
at burning Sharp Point.
and he will
not be denied.
You speak truly...
though I wish it
was not so.
(soft chuckle)
(indistinct chatter)
How goes
the Sea Snake?
Better than new.
We'll rejoin the blockade
on the morrow.
Let our foes beware.
be they Lannister or Greyjoy.
But... my ship is no longer
the Sea Snake.
She was a testament
to my own glory.
I've given her
a new name.
The Queen Who Never Was.
Rhaenyra:
Corlys...
I thank you.
(soft chuckle)
What I do now...
I do for her.
Your Grace.
you are ready.
You have six dragons
under your banner.
My ships sail
at your command.
and my men serve you.
But the Lannisters
are marching.
and the Hightowers
from Oldtown.
You must crush this beast
at its head
and before too many
days have flown.
There is.
of course...
another player that has yet
to be revealed.
Ah. Your Grace.
a word.
It seems the sheep
on our land has been sold upriver.
My vassals have sent a drove
of swine instead.
Dragons do eat pigs.
I assume?
Caraxes prefers them.
How goes your muster?
We'll be ready to march
in two days' time.
- See to those pigs.
- At once. Your Grace.
Your Grace... Ser Alfred Broome
has come to see you.
(laughs) Interesting.
I am sent as an emissary
from the queen.
to ascertain your movements
and your intentions.
You've arrived
just in time
to see my new
army. Broome.
What do you
think of it?
It's very large.
(Daemon chuckles softly)
Lannister hesitates.
I aim to march on King's Landing
before he can catch me.
May I have a word in private.
Your Grace?
I would speak
honestly with you.
Daemon Targaryen:
I'd expect nothing less.
Alfred Broome: I was faithful to the king.
your brother.
I pledged my banners
to Rhaenyra. his heir.
I will never serve
the usurpers
or the whelps
of Oldtown.
but there are battles
to be fought...
- voice (whispers): Traitor.
- ...and in times like this...
Did you hear
something?
This place will have you barking
at the moon.
While you have
mustered an army.
Rhaenyra
has faltered...
turning aside
from our judgment.
and taking a course.
I myself. deem reckless.
Rhaenyra will chart her own course.
for good or ill.
But you are
a leader of men.
If you declare
yourself.
your lords
will follow you.
I never took you
for a turncloak...
Ser Alfred.
Rhaenyra's
intentions are good.
But what we need.
in this moment...
is a king.
(tense music playing)
(chuckles)
(sighs)
♪♪
Jasper "Ironrod" Wylde:
It appears that the Pretender
sent boats to collect
those among the smallfolk
who believed they had any drop
of Targaryen blood.
Deception
and subterfuge.
Cowards. all of them.
Put an end to this madness.
Let no vessel come or go from our harbor
without our inspection.
This will hinder the work
of the fishing boats.
The people depend on them
for sustenance.
They will need
no sustenance
if they are slaughtered
by the enemy.
We must all make
our sacrifices.
Helaena Targaryen:
Why does everybody hate us?
Alicent Hightower:
They're unhappy...
and unhappy people look
for someone to hate.
We didn't order
the blockade.
No. but we are the crown.
so they expect us to break it.
Drink this.
I was happier
before I was queen.
What would you think
about leaving this place?
(birds cawing)
Where would I go?
(knocks on door)
The prince regent.
Your Grace.
Helaena. Here you are.
Mother.
- I was just. just going to bed.
- The crown has need of your service.
- Now?
- The Pretender has raised new riders against us.
and we must
answer in kind.
I need you to fly
with Dreamfyre to battle.
- Aemond.
- I do not wish to fight.
Our wishes must take
second place now
to what is necessary
to preserve the throne.
I won't burn anyone.
It isn't a question.
- Aemond.
- They have defiled our birthright.
- made commoners into dragonlords!
- Ow. ow!
- Aemond! Aemond!
- It is a sin and must be punished!
- May I remind you your sister is still the queen?
- Ow!
As you were once!
And you see now
what is the consequence
of your weakness!
We are in peril today
more than yesterday!
Was it peril that moved you to burn
the town of Sharp Point?
Peril or basest fury
at your own humiliation?
Ow!
You wish to rule
the Seven Kingdoms.
but you rain ruin and death
upon its smallfolk
when you've
been insulted
because it makes
you feel strong
and now you seek
to corrupt your sister.
of all our line.
the gentlest and most deserving
- of your protection.
- And who will protect her
if she cannot
protect herself?
And who will she be
if her mind is broken?!
'Tis no longer our rule
that is threatened.
our very lives.
- Would you not have us prevail?
- Not like this.
Not like this!
(light. tense music playing)
Grand Maester Orwyle:
Your Grace.
Grand Maester.
I must again request
your assistance.
I need passage.
And your discretion.
(solemn music playing)
- (quiet chatter)
- (ambient nature sounds)
Gwayne Hightower: Do you think
nothing of your oath...
Lord Commander?
I think of nothing
else. my lord.
Steward's son
from Dorne
fucking the queen
of the Seven Kingdoms.
Former queen.
She has broken no oath.
for all I may have done.
- I could send you to the Wall.
- You could.
Stain the Hightower name
for a generation.
- King's mother and his Hand.
- She is my sister.
(inhales)
She saved my life.
Twice.
Once from the headsman's axe
and once from myself.
Since then. she has been
the beacon I follow.
Do not think I have
no shame in me. ser.
Desire for women
has brought me grief after grief.
- Gwayne: Then resist it.
- (Criston chuckles softly)
Oh. would that
it were so simple.
Your brothers
in the Kingsguard find a way.
Do they?
Mm. perhaps
they do.
Or perhaps all men
are corrupt...
and true honor is a mist
that melts in the morning.
That is a bleak philosophy.
I have no philosophy.
Or rather.
my philosophy was this.
To protect
the righteous
and dispense justice
on the rest.
But now...
You saw what I saw.
The dragons dance.
and men are like dust under their feet.
And all our fine thoughts.
all our... endeavors
are as nothing.
We march now toward
our annihilation.
To die will be
a kind of relief.
Don't you think?
(unsettling music playing)
- (Sharako yells)
- (crowd cheering)
(heavy breathing. grunts)
- (crowd shouting)
- (Sharako laughing)
(crowd shouting. laughing)
(Tyland yells. pants)
(Tyland grunting)
(Sharako laughs)
(yells. grunts)
(heavy breathing)
(groaning)
(laughs)
(crowd chanting "Lohar")
(grunting)
(crowd quiets)
- (grunts)
- (Sharako yelps)
(heavy breathing)
(all silent)
(spits)
You have impressed me.
Lord Tyman.
King's Landing
has sent a most doughty ambassador.
(panting)
I hope... you will testify to the worth
of the ambassador...
by agreeing to his most
(pants) humble request.
I will
most certainly consider it.
(spits)
After dinner.
Have you ever eaten
the flesh of your enemies?
(panting)
What?
I have not
and I would not.
So you reject
the hospitality of my house.
- (laughs)
- (crowd laughs)
A jest. my lord.
(laughing)
What do you take me for?
A jest!
Come.
- (grunts)
- (crowd yells. laughs)
(nearby dragon grumbles)
It does not befit
a prince to pout.
I'm not pouting.
What would you
call it. then?
- I'm reading.
- While your mother waits?
You're angry.
Aren't you?
I don't see what
good it would do.
They are an insult to us.
To what makes us
Targaryens.
If any common lout
can ride a dragon.
- then...
- That does not make me common. Or you.
- You know what I am.
- I don't care.
You are
the crown prince.
the son of
the rightful queen.
and here you are sulking
because you believe that
if not for the dragon
or the trappings
of your station.
that you are nothing.
(chuckles) Do you believe that you
are the first noble heir
who was not sired
by his noble father?
Such is the way
of the world. Jace.
and in resenting it.
you only diminish yourself.
Easy enough
to say.
I've heard the whispers
the whole of my life.
Then prove to them
that you are worthy.
Get up
and take your place
by your mother's side.
(light. tense music playing)
(wind blowing)
(shivering)
♪♪
Tyland (singing halfheartedly):
♪ Here come my lads. my comely boys ♪
♪ And split your sacks ashore ♪
♪ For you'll be
sail-sailing many days ♪
♪ Afore you get
some more ♪
♪ So grease the mast
and send it up ♪
♪ Betwixt the wind
and water ♪
♪ Hoist. me lads.
and hoist again ♪
♪ Salute the captain's
daughter ♪
Well done.
Lord Tyrod!
Good song.
well delivered.
(indistinct chatter)
(futilely)
It's Tyland.
You have proven yourself
most accommodating.
And more accomplished
than one would think. to look at you.
Hm. Well... Hm.
I will be pleased
to sail at your side.
- Oh.
- And my captains with me.
(chattering stops)
To the Gullet
on the morrow!
(all cheering)
And let the Sea Snake
rue the day
we meet again.
(all cheering)
Ya! My king will
be well pleased.
To friendship!
(cheering)
(percussive music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
It is late.
(Tyland clears throat)
Oh!
Before you go...
Lord Tyland.
Mm.
You are
a handsome man.
and you have proven
your worth and virility.
I wish to have
children by you.
(stammers) You. you...
You want me to...
Indeed.
I want you
to fuck my wives.
How many wives
do you have?
Ulf: (gulps)
More wine here!
Taming a dragon
is thirsty work.
Oh. and some more
of these little birds.
(sighs)
Rhaenyra:
A toast.
To our new riders.
The three of you
are not of noble birth.
but you have done
a thing never dreamed of before now.
- (Ulf chuckling)
- (Jacaerys sighs)
I have entrusted you
with a power only few have known.
And I charge you to take it up
with fealty and respect.
Serve me well. and I will make you
knights of the realm.
Huh? What do you think
of that. boys?
We'll be knights...
just like that.
We will not fail you.
my queen.
What must we do?
I had thought the mere fact of
you might stay the enemy's hand.
But Lord Corlys
is right.
We must strike while
we have the advantage...
and end this war.
Learn your beasts
and your commands.
You will fly
in two days' time.
The strongholds of the usurper.
Oldtown and Lannisport.
and their armies.
all must be subdued.
Alone. without allies.
he will have no choice but to surrender.
You wish for us
to kill innocents.
- And so many.
- Jacaerys Velaryon: It is hard...
but it cannot
be helped.
(Ulf grunts)
We must break the will
of our enemy...
or more will die
in a struggle
that stretches
on without end.
What about Vhagar?
She is fearsome...
but she is one dragon.
The prince regent cannot
defend against all of us.
I'll take him on myself.
Silverwing's a goer. she is.
- We're afraid of nothing.
- Addam of Hull: Hm.
- Even if you are.
- There will be time enough
to see which one
of us is a coward.
I said more of
these little birds!
A knight will comport himself
with grace at the queen's table.
Best make me a knight. then.
You forget yourself...
friend.
(scoffs)
A sense of humor
would do you all good.
(footsteps approach)
(whispers) There is a message from Harrenhal.
Your Grace.
Daemon?
The castellan.
Ser Simon Strong.
Daemon has raised
his army...
- but Ser Simon fears treachery.
- (sighs)
I will not allow it.
Addam...
come with me.
Ulf: Thank you.
Birds.
(water dripping)
Do you never sleep. witch?
I'm goin'
to the godswood.
(wind blowing)
(antlered human shape
clip-clopping. grumbles)
(eerie music playing)
When you came here.
you were a closed fist.
You wished to bend
the world to your will.
But you've discovered.
I think. that...
this world will
not be governed.
There are omens here
for those who seek them.
You do not scoff?
- I'm no longer inclined to.
- (Alys chuckles)
I'm pleased to hear it.
♪♪
Do you wish. then.
to learn what is given to you?
All your life.
you have sought to command
your own fate.
(grabs Daemon's hand)
But today you are ready.
♪♪
(bark crackling)
(music intensifies)
(crackling)
(raven cawing)
♪♪
(soldiers fighting)
(explosion booms)
(light music playing)
(dragon calls. screeches)
♪♪
(powerful music playing)
Helaena (echoes):
It's all a story...
and you are but
one part in it.
You know your part.
- (music fades out)
- (wind blowing)
(bark crackling)
You know what you must do.
(footsteps approach)
Sister.
We share
the same blood.
you and I.
I know you wish
no harm to anyone.
But in a time
like this.
when the good
of the realm depends on us...
Our mother is not
a dragonrider.
She cannot understand
that you and I have
a truer call to heed.
Come with me...
to Harrenhal?
We will lay waste
to Daemon and his army.
Let our enemy see that we will answer
outrage with outrage.
And if I refuse?
Will you burn me
as you did Aegon?
- That is a lie.
- I saw it.
You burned him
and you let him fall.
What you say is treason.
Aegon will be king again.
He's yet to see victory.
He sits on
a wooden throne.
And you...
(whispers)
you'll be dead.
You were swallowed up
in the God's Eye.
and you were
never seen again.
(light. tense music playing)
(whispers)
I could have you killed.
(softly) It wouldn't
change anything.
♪♪
- (intense music playing)
- (Syrax roars)
(Seasmoke roars)
(Caraxes grumbles)
(roars)
♪♪
(all yelling)
(singers vocalizing)
(dragons calling)
(screeches)
(roars)
♪♪
I am the castellan.
Ser Simon Strong. Your Grace.
Well met.
Welcome to Harrenhal.
my queen.
I did not think
to see you here yourself.
(exhales) Your message
gave me much concern.
Yes. I must admit
I had reason to fear.
But come.
see for yourself.
(Seasmoke calls)
(indistinct chatter)
(chatter quiets)
(Syrax screeching)
(roars)
(silence)
(light. tense music playing)
♪♪
I wasn't
expecting you.
That seems rather
a lapse in foresight.
- I see you have done well here.
- They are sworn to me.
And not a moment
too soon.
And to whom
are you sworn?
(speaking High Valyrian)
The realm's only hope...
is a leader
who can unite it
and my brother
chose... you.
(light music playing)
You are the true queen.
Rhaenyra.
First of Her Name.
Protector of the Realm.
I am meant to serve you.
and all of these with me.
until death
or the end of our story.
(music intensifies)
(music softens)
(speaking High Valyrian)
My queen.
(shouting) For every one of us
who falls...
a hundred of them!
There will be
no mercy!
We fight for our queen!
(all cheering)
(heroic music playing)
(Daemon shouting)
♪♪
(music softens)
(cranking)
(indistinct chatter)
(seagulls cawing)
You sent for me.
Lord Hand.
Gulls are flying
low today.
The weather
will change.
Not until late.
I think. but...
- I will ready the storm sails.
- We join the blockade.
and are like to find ourselves in peril.
sooner than late.
I wish to set out on good terms
with my first mate.
Have I been remiss
in my duties?
You've done what
is asked of you. and more.
But you are curt...
silent.
and the men
find you distant.
You cannot lead
if you do not inspire.
Well. I never asked to lead.
as you well know.
You have been given a position to
which all who serve here aspire.
Forgive me. my lord.
I will endeavor
to improve myself.
(birds cawing)
(softly)
I am trying to help you.
You want
to help me?
Is this the help
you offer after all these years?
A reminder
to be grateful?
I mean no offense.
You may go.
Do you know what
it was like for us?
To grow up
fatherless...
to be sneered upon
as bastards.
never sure
of the bread to feed us?
D-D-Do you know
what hunger does to a boy?
What grief does?
- Or shame?
- You are dismissed.
I sold fish
in the market
from cold dawn
until sunset.
putting by coppers
to stave off the winter.
and I watched the man
who sired me walk past
with his son and heir
with a fur
around his shoulders...
choosing sweetmeats
to eat after supper by the fire.
And now that boy is dead.
And his sister before him.
And the heir
that took his place.
And now. now. now
you remember I live.
Now you wish to...
suddenly to scatter
the crumbs of your favor.
I am an honorable man.
and I will serve you because I must.
But if it is
all the same.
I will decline
any offers of help.
If I survive
this war...
I will continue
as I began...
alone.
(solemn music playing)
(panting)
- (dragon calls)
- (gasps)
(tense. exciting music playing)
(dragon calls)
(music fades out)
Mysaria: You have done
what no one else would dream of.
and you have
been rewarded.
The gods
favor you.
They put the means to victory
in your hands.
And yet. to claim it.
I must strike
and in striking.
I doom thousands to their deaths.
(dragons grumbling)
I do not believe
my father would've wished this.
He left you
with no choice.
Be strong.
You know you are just.
You must not let
the Realm fall to those
who care for power
more than peace.
You must prevail.
And who pays the price?
(dragons grumbling. screeching)
(bangs on door)
Come.
(door opens)
Begging your pardon.
Your Grace.
I had to see you.
- Who knows?
- None save my protector.
He laid down his sword
at your gate.
(sighs)
I've been. I think...
mistaken.
In what?
I was raised to believe there was
an order to things.
that there was security
in following the paths laid out for us.
I resented you.
I think.
for... caring so little
for any of it.
for knowing
what you wanted.
I did not know
what I wanted.
I knew only what
was expected of me.
- Why have you come here?
- Because I lost my way.
Or rather.
it was taken from me.
All those I put
my faith in. my...
- m-my husband. my father. my lover. my son...
- Ooh.
The incorruptible queen
sullies herself
with a lover.
Do not judge me
for what you yourself have done.
Your father died.
I took comfort with another.
- I too have desires.
- Yes. but you alone made virtue your banner.
And I clung to it...
in defiance of you.
I think. who
so disdained it.
I have been
alone. of late.
I walked outside
the walls of the city
and I felt a weight
lifted from me.
- How lovely for you.
- I thought. for the first time.
what I would choose...
if not for the duty
I put before all else.
(chuckles) Shall you cast
your son down and rule alone?
No. I do not wish to rule.
I wish to live.
To be free of all this
endless plotting and striving.
The crown will pursue war
and victory at any cost.
I... (sniffles)
But as for me...
I would take my daughter
and her child and leave it all behind.
(chuckles)
It's too late... Alicent.
You said it yourself.
Blood has been shed.
cities burned.
armies march.
and you wish
to wash your hands
of what you yourself
set in motion.
Oh. the arrogance
of blaming me.
as if you would not
have been challenged regardless.
Did not your hand
bring it forth like a midwife?
I did only what
I thought your father wanted.
Oh. go then.
Leave us behind.
as you say.
(scoffs)
Rhaenyra.
- Wander in the wilderness.
- (Alicent sighs)
What has it got
to do with me?
Did you come here
thinking you would be absolved?
(sighs)
He never stopped loving your mother.
you know?
He was very fond of me.
and I of him.
but...
she was the vision
that sustained him
even after
she herself
had slipped
from his grasp. it was
his love for her
that kept him resolute
in his choice
of heir.
And yet. you believe
he wavered at the end.
Why have you come here?
(sniffles)
Aemond will soon fly to join Cole
in the Riverlands.
(deep breath)
When he's gone...
Helaena as queen will be
the crown's authority.
If you come then to King's Landing.
I will see to it
that our guards
throw down their arms.
we will open the gates.
we will shed no blood.
- You will enter as a conqueror.
- (laughs)
Already you have
the stronger hand.
Once you take the throne...
(deep breath)
this senseless war must end.
(softly)
Right.
What of Aegon?
He's broken
beyond recognition.
He lies in the dark.
in pain and terror.
He has many faults.
but...
he still heeds his mother.
I believe I can
prevail upon him
- to bend the knee. if indeed...
- No! Still...
you defend him.
Still you imagine you
can have all you want
without paying
too high a price.
- a price I had no choice but to pay.
- What I want
is to set things right.
If I am to take
the throne.
I must put an end
to the opposition.
I must take
Aegon's head.
And I have to do it
for all to see.
You know this.
However you may try to evade it.
you know this.
Choose.
(deep breath)
Will you shrink from what
you set out to do?
Or will you
see it through...
and make your sacrifice?
A son for a son.
(exhales)
(sniffles)
(sighs)
(deep breath)
(both crying softly)
You are much changed.
(sniffling) Let us be done
with this. please.
And what do I do
with you now?
You let me go.
to do what I promised.
And you fly to the Red Keep
in three days' time.
and you take
your throne.
Or you take me
for a liar.
I have neither
weapon nor armor.
My life itself
is forfeit.
I... cast myself
on the mercy of a friend
who once loved me.
History will paint
you a villain.
A cold queen...
grasping for power.
and then defeated.
Let them think
what they must.
I am at last myself...
with no ambition greater than to walk
where I please and to breathe the open air.
To die unremarked
and unnoticed...
and be free.
You speak as if
from a distant dream.
Come with me.
My part is here.
whether I will or no.
It was decided
for me long ago.
(softly)
Go.
(melancholy music playing)
(music intensifies)
(panting)
♪♪
(tense. anticipatory
music playing)
(roars)
♪♪
(panting)
(dragon grumbles)
(roars)
♪♪
(singers vocalizing)
(animals chattering)
♪♪
(vocalizing continues)
(music. vocalizing fades out)
(intense music playing)
♪♪
(singers vocalizing)
(music. vocalizing fades out)
♪ (THRILLING MUSIC PLAYS)
RYAN CONDAL: The final episode
is such a great build
for everywhere we've been
in season two
and promising what's to come.
♪ (TENSE MUSIC PLAYS)
(CROWD CLAMORING)
SARA HESS: Rhaenyra has choked
King's Landing with a blockade.
and people are starting
to get hungry.
and they're going to revolt
against the King.
or the Prince Regent.
Break the blockade.
and it will benefit you.
It seems you need us
more than we need you.
There is a Lannister navy.
there is a Hightower navy.
but they're on the other side
of the blockade.
And so they end up going
to bargain with the Triarchy
which Tyland is very
not on board with.
but ends up having to do.
But it's a sign of how extreme
their position is.
RYAN: This is where
the seat of power sits.
And this is a very rich cartel
of three different nations
that are in the shipping
and piracy business.
And they hate Westeros.
And they want to seek a profit
off of them.
He gets sent to pirate land
to treat with the pirates.
To see if he can get
the Triarchy
to ally with the Greens.
Admiral Lohar.
ABIGAIL THORNE: He needs to impress me
before he can get what he wants.
I put him through absolute hell.
- (GROANING)
- (CROWD CHEERS)
Singing was the worst.
I can handle mud wrestling.
but singing is miserable.
But it worked
because Tyland can't sing.
RYAN: She's a bonkers character
that feels like one of these
very colorful characters
ripped right out of the pages
of George's books.
The people there take her
entirely seriously.
and we're sort of looking at her
the way Tyland does.
which is. "What's going on?"
and "Is this real?"
SARA: One of our season highlights
was bringing in Sharako Lohar.
And it can be a rough show.
It's grim. it's a war.
a lot of people die.
So having that moment of levity
and just sort of off-kilterness
was really important to us
and a really welcome
little bit of fun.
- (CROWD LAUGHS)
- A jest. my Lord.
RHAENYRA TARGARYEN:
How goes the Seasnake?
I've given her a new name.
The Queen Who Never Was.
We really wanted to find a way
for him to honor
and keep alive the memory
of Rhaenys.
Because it shows the arc
that he's been on
across the season
where much of his life
was about him
and his own glory.
I mean. he named his ship
after himself.
GEETA VASANT PATEL:
Corlys always went out to sea.
so Rhaenys never felt like
his priority.
And when she died.
it finally came to Corlys
that he always thought
about himself.
And so he did the one thing
he could do.
Take his namesake. his ship.
and make it hers.
SARA: He's lost all the people
he loves.
He's sort of come to this place
of acceptance
and understanding
that his great exploits
are less important than just
having his family around him.
Do you know what hunger does
to a boy?
What grief does?
Rhaenys always had
the conversation with Corlys
about his heir.
And none of them really feel
like they're the right person.
For the first time.
Corlys considers Addam and Alyn.
Yes. they are bastards.
but they are more qualified.
STEVE TOUSSAINT: One of
the things that we talked about.
myself. Abu. and Geeta.
was that nobody speaks
to Corlys that way.
Not if they've got any sense.
The only person who does
is Rhaenys.
When it came to the tirade.
this emotional speech.
it came down to the words
and playing off Steve
and his reactions.
Alyn doesn't expect it
coming out of him.
I wasn't expecting it
coming out of me either.
Like. it was one
of those moments
where I generally felt like
I could really let go.
I am trying to help you.
Now you remember I live.
STEVE: He watched me
with my other son.
picking up wonderful gifts
and walking into the castle.
And he.
who knew I was his father.
had to grow up in poverty.
For me then to come
into his life and sort of go.
"I'm trying to help you."
well. of course.
he's gonna be resentful.
You understand the hurt
and everything that he's carried
for all of these years.
You see the way it lands
on the Seasnake.
And I think he knows
that he hasn't been
the patriarchal figure
that he needed to be
to these guys.
but I don't think he realizes
until this moment
the cost that it had
on this human being.
If it is all the same.
I will decline any offers
of help.
(VHAGAR GROWLS. BELLOWS)
RYAN: Aemond lashes out.
It's also a strategic act
because Sharp Point
is the seat of House Massey
who serves
on Rhaenyra's council.
It's a punishment to them
for siding with the pretender.
Aemond is showing
that he's not running.
He's burning cities filled
with innocent people instead.
SARA: Aemond is now.
for the first time this season.
I think. scared.
From the time in season one
when he got Vhagar as a boy.
that's changed
his entire outlook.
And now that he's been
challenged by these new dragons.
it's the first time that. like.
"Oh. no. I don't have
the upper hand
in any situation I go into."
GEETA:
The stakes are so high
that if he doesn't get
another rider.
he will have no chance
against the Blacks.
And they will lose the throne
is Aegon continues to be king.
In his mind.
he's doing what's right
for his house.
Why must I run?
Because the Prince Regent
is going to kill you.
I think from Larys' experience.
those who look through you.
they never see you coming.
That's what he's trying
to say to Aegon is.
as long as Aegon
is not a threat.
he's relatively safe.
TOM GLYNN-CARNEY: Larys sees the light
at the end of the tunnel.
Or at least he's made Aegon
think he knows
what that could be.
After his encounter with Aemond
in episode six.
Aegon knows
that Larys is correct.
In that moment.
Aemond gets desperate
with the newfound
potential threat.
And he overextends
and gets forceful with Helaena.
PHIA SABAN: I think it's desperation
that reeks off him in that scene
when Alicent and Helaena
are both like.
"Bro. calm down.
This is not how somebody
who feels really sure about
what they're doing behaves."
EWAN MITCHELL: Helaena admits
she saw how I burned Aegon
and it's hard-hitting for Aemond
to hear he's gonna go down.
He kind of envisioned
after the war had finished
he'd be seen as this war hero.
But Helaena's prophecy
puts a stop to that.
Helaena's probably put herself
in more danger with Aemond
than she ever has been before.
- Would you not have us prevail?
- Not like this.
SARA: Aemond is gonna be
an interesting loose cannon
in season three
because when Aemond is scared.
laughed at. or feels small.
he lashes out.
You're either with him
or you're against him.
You get in his way.
you're in for a show.
ALYS RIVERS: All your life. you've sought
to command your own fate.
But today. you are ready.
RYAN: There are
different magics
and worlds in play here
in George's universe.
and Alys has been
a bit of a guide for Daemon
and has made him ready
for this thing
that Alys is going to show him
that he was not ready for
in episode three
when he showed up at the castle.
He's evolved in some way.
and he's ready
to see the future.
RYAN: We wanted Daemon to have
this final experience
that was undeniable to him.
He's somebody that has
rejected the supernatural
his entire life.
SARA: We definitely wanted
to tie what Daemon sees
to Game of Thrones
because where it picks up.
it's Daenerys Targaryen
finding those eggs.
She is a descendent
of Daemon and Rhaenyra
and so what he ends up seeing
is that
he's just this tiny piece
of this massive story
and once you start to see that.
you gain an entirely different
perspective.
This vision brings Daemon
into the story of Fire and Ice
and takes him to his death.
And after his death.
it shows him
that if he continues
to only think of himself.
great loss will be had.
And then he sees a hope.
We know it's Daenerys.
but he doesn't know who it is.
And he sees a White Walker.
which is cool.
I was like.
"Come on. that's cool."
RYAN: Even though Rhaenyra
and Daemon
are not going to save the realm
from the White Walkers.
their actions do have an impact
on how that future
is going to play out.
You know your path.
(ECHOING)
RYAN: To evolve
from the character
that stormed out of Dragonstone
in episode two.
we had to see Daemon go through
all of his... (CHUCKLES)
...trials and tribulations.
And Rhaenyra. not knowing
what Daemon is going to do.
And then you believe
he is changed.
and he sees
that he is not the player.
but a piece on the board.
as Alys tells him.
MATT SMITH: He sees Rhaenyra
on the throne.
and I think it gives him
the confidence in himself to go.
"I serve you and I'm yours."
SARA: And it's not that
everything's been resolved.
but Daemon realizes that his job
is to facilitate
Rhaenyra getting to the throne.
and that he...
understands now that Viserys
wasn't trying to punish him.
And so he's able to let go
of his anger at Rhaenyra.
To sort of let everything go
and.
"Let's go do this together.
I'm on your team."
She wasn't sure
throughout the entire season
if he was going to try
to set himself up as king.
and it's this moment
of validation
that she gets from him
that I think
is incredibly meaningful.
We fight for our Queen!
(SOLDIERS CHEER)
RHAENYRA: Will you see it through
and make your sacrifice?
A son for a son?
You've seen the massive ways
that things have changed
between meeting number one
and meeting number two.
And I think both of them have
been through further trauma.
and it's brought them back
around to a place
where they're wondering
what the cost
of all this is for.
It's massive that Alicent
travels to Rhaenyra.
It's treason.
If Aemond found out.
head on a spike.
But it's also to look Rhaenyra
in the eye
as my. like. rawest self.
"This is me shedding
whatever power
or Queenly status I had.
I was wrong.
Take it.
I don't want anything
to do with it. I'm done."
She's had this journey
of self-actualization.
and she's got a lot
of power within her.
And I think she feels
much more capable.
It's funny to be offered
a huge gift
at the point where you think
you already have what you need.
SARA: The climax of that scene
is Rhaenyra.
"I'm going to have to kill
your son."
and Alicent acceding to it.
Which is huge for Rhaenyra
because that is not something
that Alicent
would ever have done before.
So I think that causes her
to really believe
what Alicent is saying.
Rhaenyra has
these new dragon riders.
she's just gotten Daemon back.
she has this big army.
If she wanted to.
she could probably win
this war herself.
But at the cost of thousands
and thousands of lives.
And then she's sort of given
this backdoor by Alicent.
And so I think we leave
season two
with Rhaenyra in this place of.
"What am I going to do?"
RYAN: It's such
a beautiful scene.
and so wonderfully written
by Sara.
wonderfully performed by Emma
and Olivia.
and Geeta
beautifully directed it.
And the way it launches us
into the third season
and the unknown
of what's to come.
it's a tour de force.
♪ (DELICATE PIANO MUSIC PLAYS)
SARA: There's so much in play.
there are armies.
there are dragons.
there's castle strongholds
and political maneuvering.
but at the end of the day.
it comes down to these two women
trying to figure it out.
RYAN: The Lannisters
are arriving in the Riverlands.
The Hightowers are marching
through the Reach.
The Winter Wolves
are coming from the North.
The Triarchy's sailing.
We see the Seasnake
going back out to sea.
Daemon has his army
in the Riverlands.
Alicent's fourth son
on his dragon.
The Blue Queen is now flying
in support
of this massive
Hightower army.
We find Otto
in this cell somewhere.
and we don't know quite
where he is
or what happened to him.
GEETA:
Rhaena discovers a dragon.
And we see a forest
outside of King's Landing.
And there is Aegon.
Larys and Aegon
basically escape King's Landing
as shit's about to hit
the fan.
It's just a reminder of
things have been put in motion
which they can't pull back.
And similar to Daemon's vision.
where you're seeing the things
that are all going to come
to play a part
in the whole story.
While this season was very much
about the fits and starts
of an early medieval war.
season three is clearly
going to be about total war.
I think Team Black
are in ascendancy.
A desperate Aemond
is a dangerous Aemond.
I will never. ever concede.
The whole thing is just
so volatile.
Baela's gonna do
whatever it takes.
whatever it comes down to.
she's prepared to do.
EMMA D'ARCY:
She has the better hand
and an inevitably positive shot
at the throne.
TOM: The pendulum could swing
either way very quickly.
We shall see who
the last man standing is.
♪ (THRILLING OUTRO MUSIC
PLAYS) ♪